.TH automaton 1 2014-12-15 "automaton 0.2.2" "User Manuals"

.SH NAME
automaton \- A lightweight external node classifier for the puppet configuration
manager.

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B automaton <command> -n <node_name> <args>
.br
.B automaton --version

.B -n | --name **This is required for _all_ commands**
The name of the node, instance, machine, server or what ever you would like
to call it.

.SH DESCRIPTION
automaton is a lightweight external node classifier for puppet that supports
multiple data backends. New backend storage mechanisms can be easily written
for automaton. It has a simple command line interface, as well as an optional
REST interface. automaton is written in ruby, and authored by ShellFu, and is
provided as-is with no warranty expressed, implied or otherwise. Use at your
own risk.

.SH MAIN COMMANDS

Automaton supports lookup, add, update and remove commands. These commands
will be primarily what you will be working when interacting with machine data.

.B Important note about delimiters:
.br
Both command-line and rest interfaces have very similar formats to make it easy to remember.
Take note of the below delimiters when adding class parameters or top level parameters. You
may add or update one class or parameter at a time or multiple additions as per below.

The delimiters for classes and parameters is a >,<(comma). While the delimiter for class
parameters is a >^<(carrot). This is the format for command-line and rest interfaces:

    * for class parameters you specify like: class1^parameter=value,class2,class3
    * for top parameters you specify like:   key=value,key1=value

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.B automaton lookup -n [name]
.br
Use lookup to lookup a node definition.

    automaton lookup -n node01.example.com

.B automaton add -n [name] [options]
.br
Use add a node definition. Note that the options vary depending on what you're
adding.

This command adds the node definition for node01.example.com with the class timezone,
and class parameter timezone=America/Denver
    automaton add -n node01.example.com -c timezone^timezone=America/Denver

.B automaton update -n [name] [options]
.br
Use update a node definition. Note that the options vary depending on what you're
updating.

This command updates the node definition with the class timezone, and class parameter
timezone=Europe/Berlin
    automaton update -n node01.example.com -c timezone^timezone=Europe/Berlin

.B automaton remove -n [name] [options]
.br
Use remove to remove a node definition or to remove classes or parameters from a node
definition. As with update the options vary depending on what you're removing.

This command removes the class timezone from node01.example.com
    automaton remove -n node01.example.com -c timezone

.SH FACTER FACT INTERPOLATION
Automaton can make use of puppet's inventory service, and provide fact interpolation directly in the
node definition. You can add a fact to be replace by a facter value with the syntax: %{::fact_name}.

.B NOTE:
.br
Puppet inventory service must be setup, and enablefacts = true in <install_path>/config/config.yml

This command sets the parameter kernel, and uses the kernel facter value as its value.
    automaton update -n node01.example.com -p kernel=%{::kernel}

----------------------------------------------------------------------------------

.SH MISCELLANEOUS COMMANDS

Miscellaneous subcommands either accept no command line arguments, or accept
non-standard arguments.

.B automaton fact [lookup | collect] -n [name] [-f [fact_name | ALL]]
.br
Automaton fact command can either lookup facts or collect them, but it cannot change facts.
Facts are pulled directly from facter using puppet's inventory service.

This command collects the latest facter data for the machine node01.example.com
    automaton fact collect -n node01.example.com

This command looks up the fact "processorcount" for the machine node01.example.com
    automaton fact lookup -n node01.example.com -f processorcount

This command shows _ALL_ facts for the machine node01.example.com, and displays them in YAML format
    automaton fact lookup -n node01.example.com -f ALL
    

.TP
.B automaton --version
Shows the automaton version number.


.SH MORE EXAMPLES

For examples please see the automaton tutorial man page at

.RS
man automaton-tutorial
.RE

or the online documentation starting at

.RS
<http://shellfu.github.io/automaton>
.RE

Note that the online documentation is more detailed and more current than this
man page.

.SH FILES

.TP
<install_path>/config/config.yml
User configuration file - see file for details.



.SH "CREDITS & COPYRIGHTS"
Copyright (C) 2012 \- 2014 P. Daniel 'ShellFu' Kendrick

Automaton is distributed under the GPL license.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR automaton(5),
.BR automaton-tutorial(5),

For more information regarding automaton, see the following:

.TP
The official site at
<http://shellfu.github.io/automaton>

.TP
The official code repository at
<git://shellfu.com/automaton>

.TP
You can contact the project by emailing
<dk@shellfu.com>

.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
Bugs in automaton may be reported to the issue-tracker at
<http://github.com/shellfu/issues>